In the previous video, we already learn how
to find the best prefix we can use in the
computer network.
Here we have 100 computers, and we know from
the previous video that the best prefix for
100 computers is /25.
Now, in this video, we are going to determine
which IP Address we will use.
In the previous video, I also already tell
you about Public and Private IP Address.
And we need to remember that we must use
Private IP Address in the local network.
Here is the range of Private IP Address, we
are free to use which range.
we can use 10, or 172.16 or 192.168, we
can use whatever we want.
In this case, I want to use 192.168.0.0.
This IP is included in the third range of
Private IP Address.
Now, remember that we need to pay attention
on the last number.
The first third number will never change.
But the last number will be change.
If you remember, the number of IP Address
is between 0 until 255.
So the last number have a chance to change
become 0 until 255.
Okay let’s start learning.
In this case we will search for several thing.
Which is Total IP, Subnetmask, IP Network,
IP Broadcast, and IP Range.
We will learn about all of this one by one.
First let’s search for the total IP.
We already learn about this, to find the total
IP is 2 to the power of 32 minus prefix,
in this case, the prefix is /25, 32 minus 25
is 7, and 2 to the power of 7 is 128.
So the total IP for prefix /25 is 128.
If you forget about the powers, I recommend
you to always write it, so 2 to the power
of 1 until 2 to the power of 8.
Later, if you get used to this, you will never
need to write the powers again.
You will able to calculate subnetting without
even writing anything.
So don’t worry to write everything if you
just start learning about computer network.
Okay, now we know that the total IP for prefix
/25 is 128.
Next we are going to find the subnetmask.
But before that, we will learn about what
is subnetmask first.
Actually, the function of subnetmask is same
as prefix.
Some vendor will need prefix when configure
an IP Address, but some vendor will need subnetmask.
Let’s say we have mikrotik.
In Mikrotik we will need prefix when configuring
IP Address.
But in cisco, we don’t need prefix, we need
subnetmask when configuring IP Address.
Another example, in windows, we need subnetmask,
but in linux, some times we will use prefix
rather than subnetmask.
But some time we also use subnetmask in linux.
The point is, that the function of subnetmask
is same as prefix.
Some vendor using prefix, but some vendor
using subnetmask.
Now let’s see in cisco packet tracer.
In the previous video, we already build a
simple computer network like this.
Let’s take a look again to the PC 0.
Go to desktop and then IP Configuration.
Here we can see that when we configure an
IP Address, we will also need to configure
subnetmask.
But here we don’t see any field to put prefix.
So in this case, we will need subnetmask instead
of prefix.
Okay, now you understand what is subnetmask.
Next, let’s calculate subnetmask for prefix
/25.
The formula is 256 minus by Total IP.
In this case, the total IP is 128.
So 256 minus 128, the answer is 128.
If we see in the cisco packet tracer again,
the subnetmask is contains of 4 part of numbers.
In this case the subnetmask is 255.255.255.0.
Well for prefix /25, we already find that
the subnetmask is 128.
This 128 is used in the last number of subnetmask.
So the subnetmask for prefix /25 is 255.255.255.128.
Okay now I hope you understand how to calculate
total IP and subnetmask.
In the next video, we are going to learn about
Network IP, Broadcast IP, and IP Range.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video!